added howto use for the utility classes (#511)
ROCm/rocDecode: docs/how-to/using-rocDecode-videodecode-sample.rst

.. meta::
  :description: Understanding the rocDecode videodecode sample
  :keywords: parse video, parse, decode, video decoder, video decoding, rocDecode, AMD, ROCm, sample, walkthrough

********************************************************************

> Understanding the rocDecode videodecode sample

Reviewer: is videodecode supposed to be one word?

Author: yes. Though it should be videodecode.cpp. I messed up there. I'll fix it.

********************************************************************

The |videodecode|_ sample in the rocDecode GitHub repository |samplefolder|_ demonstrates how to decode a video stream.

> As with the other rocDecode samples, ``videodecode.cpp`` usesthe utility classes in the rocDecode repository's |utilsfolder|_. These classes are convenience classes that provide a high-level calls to the core APIs in the |apifolder|_. For information about the core APIs, see :doc:`Using the rocDecode core APIs <./using-rocdecode>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As with the other rocDecode samples, ``videodecode.cpp`` uses the utility classes in the rocDecode repository's |utilsfolder|_. These classes are convenience classes that provide high-level calls to the core APIs in the |apifolder|_. For information about the core APIs, see :doc:`Using the rocDecode core APIs <./using-rocdecode>`.

```

> rocDecode provides two ways to decode a video stream: using the rocDecode RocVideoDecoder on GPU or using the FFMpeg video decoder on CPU.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
rocDecode provides two ways to decode a video stream: the rocDecode RocVideoDecoder on GPU or the FFMpeg video decoder on CPU.

```

Author: I don't like the one using like that. Just stylistically I don't like it.

The ``videodecode.cpp`` sample lets the user choose which method to use through the ``--backend`` argument.

``videodecode.cpp`` takes the following arguments:

.. list-table:: 
    :widths: 10 30 60 
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Argument      
      - Description 
      - Note

    * - ``-i``
      - Input file path
      - Required. The path to the input video stream.
    
    * - ``-o`` 
      - Output file path
      - Optional. The file to which to write the decoded frames, including those that remain in the frame buffer when the RocVideoDecoder is being reconfigured.

    * - ``-d`` 
      - GPU device ID 

>       - Optional. Set it to 0 for the first device, 1 for the second device, 2 for the third device, and so on for each subsequent device. Defaults to 0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Optional. Set it to 0 for the first device, 1 for the second device, 2 for the third device, and so on for each subsequent device. Default is 0.

```

Reviewer: i won't comment on this anymore

  
    * - ``-backend`` 
      - The backend to use for decoding
      - Optional. Set it to 0 to use RocVideoDecode on GPU, 1 to use the FFMpeg decoder on CPU, or 2 to use the FFMpeg decoder with no multithreading on CPU. Defaults to using RocVideoDecode on GPU.

    * - ``-f`` 
      - Number of frames to decode 
      - Optional. Defaults to decoding the entire stream.

    * - ``-z`` 
      - Force zero latency 

>       - Optional. When set to ``true`` forces decoded frames to be flushed out for display immediately. Defaults to ``false``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Optional. When set to ``true``, forces decoded frames to be flushed out for display immediately. Default is ``false``.

```

Author: fixed the table.

    * - ``-disp_delay`` 
      - Display delay
      - Optional. The number of frames to decode before displaying the results. Defaults to 1.
      
    * - ``-sei`` 
      - Extract Supplemental Enhancement Information (SEI)
      - Optional. Set to ``true`` to extract SEI. Defaults to ``false``.

    * - ``-md5`` 
      - Generate MD5 message digest

>       - Optional. Set to ``true`` to generate the MD5 message digest for the decoded YUV image sequence. Defaults to ``false``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Optional. Set to ``true`` to generate the MD5 message digest for the decoded YUV image sequence. Default is ``false``.

```

    * - ``-md5_check``
      - Compare the generated MD5 with a provided MD5 string
      - Optional. When a file containing an MD5 string is passed to this argument, the MD5 message is compared to the string in the file.

    * - ``-crop`` 
      - Crop rectangle 
      - Optional. Takes four integers defining the crop rectangle to use with the output. This argument is ignored when using interopped decoded frame. See the documentation for the `Rect struct <https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/rocDecode/en/latest/doxygen/html/structRect.html>`_ for more information. Defaults to no cropping.

    * - ``-m`` 
      - The output surface memory type
      - Optional. The memory type where the surface data, such as the decoded frames, resides. Set this to 0 for intermediate GPU memory, to 1 for GPU memory, and to 2 for CPU memory. See :doc:`Surface data memory locations <../conceptual/rocDecode-memory-types>` for more information. Defaults to 0. 

    * - ``-seek_criteria`` 
      - Seek criteria and seek starting point

>       - Optional. Set to 1 and the frame number, to start demultiplexing from that specific frame. Set to 2 and the timestamp, to start demultiplexing from that specific timestamp. The seek criteria and starting point must be comma-separated (``,``). Defaults to starting from the first frame. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Optional. Set to 1 and the frame number to start demultiplexing from that specific frame. Set to 2 and the timestamp to start demultiplexing from that specific timestamp. The seek criteria and starting point must be comma-separated (``,``). Defaults to starting from the first frame. 

```

      
    * - ``-seek_mode``
      - Seek mode 
      - Optional. Set to 0 to seek to the previous keyframe. Set to 1 to seek to the exact frame. Defaults to seek to the previous keyframe.
    
    * - ``-no_ffmpeg_demux`` 
      - Don't use the FFMpeg demultiplexer
      - Optional. Set to ``true`` to use the RocDecode bitstream reader to obtain picture data. The bitstream reader can only be used with an elementary stream. 

Because the ``videodecode.cpp`` example can use the RocDecode RocVideoDecoder, the FFMpeg decoder, the FFmpeg demultiplexer (demuxer), or the RocDecode bitstream reader, it imports the ``roc_video_dec.h``, ``video_demuxer.h``, and ``ffmpeg_video_dec.h`` header files. These headers contain the convenience classes and functions for decoding and demultiplexing video.

> Unless ``-no_ffmpeg_demux`` was set to ``true``, the FFMpeg demuxer is used to demultiplex the input stream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unless ``-no_ffmpeg_demux`` is set to ``true``, the FFMpeg demuxer is used to demultiplex the input stream.

```

Author: See, in this case, it would have been set to true in the past when the command was called so i don't know. Let me think about this.

.. code:: C++

  VideoDemuxer *demuxer;
  demuxer = new VideoDemuxer(input_file_path.c_str());

.. code:: C++

> The ``GetCodecId`` and ``GetBitDepth`` functions are used to obtain the video stream's codec and bit depth. The ``AVCodec2RocDecVideoCodec`` utility function converts the codec returned from the demuxer to its corresponding ``rocDecVideoCodec_enum`` value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``GetCodecId`` and ``GetBitDepth`` functions return the video stream's codec and bit depth. The ``AVCodec2RocDecVideoCodec`` utility function converts the codec returned from the demuxer to its corresponding ``rocDecVideoCodec_enum`` value.

```

Reviewer: as that functions return something

Author: The function doesn't return it. It gets passed through the parameters.

.. code:: C++

  rocdec_codec_id = AVCodec2RocDecVideoCodec(demuxer->GetCodecID());
  bit_depth = demuxer->GetBitDepth();

> The codec ID and bit depth are used to instantiate the video decoder. If the GPU backend was selected, the RocVideoDecoder is instantiated:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The codec ID and bit depth instantiates the video decoder. If the GPU backend was selected, the RocVideoDecoder is instantiated:

```

Author: The codec and bit depth don't instantiate the decoder; the constructor is used to instantiate the decoder. the codec id and bit depth are passed to the constructor to instantiate the decoder, hence they are used to instantiate the decoder :)

.. meta::
  :description: Understanding the rocDecode videodecode sample
  :keywords: parse video, parse, decode, video decoder, video decoding, rocDecode, AMD, ROCm, sample, walkthrough

********************************************************************
Understanding the rocDecode videodecode sample
********************************************************************

The |videodecode|_ sample in the rocDecode GitHub repository |samplefolder|_ demonstrates how to decode a video stream.

As with the other rocDecode samples, ``videodecode.cpp`` uses the utility classes in the rocDecode repository's |utilsfolder|_.

rocDecode provides two ways to decode a video stream: using the rocDecode RocVideoDecoder on GPU or using the FFMpeg video decoder on CPU.

The ``videodecode.cpp`` sample lets the user choose which method to use through the ``--backend`` argument.

``videodecode.cpp`` takes the following arguments:

.. list-table:: 
    :widths: 10 30 60 
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Argument      
      - Description 
      - Note

    * - ``-i``
      - Input file path
      - Required. The path to the input video stream.
    
    * - ``-o`` 
      - Output file path

>       - Optional. The file to which to write the decoded frames, including those that remain in the frame buffer when the RocVideoDecoder is being reconfigured.

Reviewer 2: Please remove "including those that remain in the frame buffer when the RocVideoDecoder is being reconfigured.".

Author: Is this incorrect ie, the frames in the frame in the frame buffers *won't* be written to this file when the decoder is being reconfigured?

Reviewer 2: There is no need to mention "including those that remain in the frame buffer when the RocVideoDecoder is being reconfigured." "-o" is a general option for dumping decoded frames to an output file. "those that remain in the frame buffer" will confuse the user. Flushing the remaining decoded frames should be transparent to the user.

Author: If that's the concern, I'll keep it in. It's important for a user to know what the config options do, and what will be written to the file.

Reviewer 2: Again "-o" is a general term.  "including those that remain in the frame buffer when the RocVideoDecoder is being reconfigured." will cause confusion. Flushing remaining frames is a must do step in reconfigure and a user has nothing to do with it. It is done by the decoder. It is NOT a concern for the user.

Author: This section describes what the command line options are and how they're used. For -o, it lets the user know how the passed file is used. More information is better than less. It also helps the user understand how the sample works.

And because the option and file are mentioned later on when explainng the reconfiguration parameters, it makes sense to mention it when discussing the command line option.

This is best practice from a docs/communications perspective.

>       - Optional. The file to which to write the decoded frames, including those that remain in the frame buffer when the RocVideoDecoder is being reconfigured.

Reviewer 2: Suggest change "that remain in the frame buffer" to "that remain in the decoded frame buffer pool".

.. code:: C++

  RocVideoDecoder *viddec;
  viddec = new RocVideoDecoder(device_id, mem_type, rocdec_codec_id, b_force_zero_latency, p_crop_rect, b_extract_sei_messages, disp_delay);

For more information about the rocDecode RocVideoDecoder, see :doc:`Using the rocDecode RocVideoDecoder <./using-rocDecode-video-decoder>`. 

If the CPU backend was selected, the FFMpeg decoder is instantiated:

.. code:: C++

  viddec = new FFMpegVideoDecoder(device_id, mem_type, rocdec_codec_id, b_force_zero_latency, p_crop_rect, b_extract_sei_messages, disp_delay);

The decoder instance is reused when there is a change to the video resolution without a change in the codec. When the video stream resolution changes, the decoder is reconfigured for the new resolution and the pool of frame buffers that the decoder maintains is deleted.

The |reconfig_struct|_ struct is used to store information on how to handle the frames that remain in the buffers at the time of  reconfiguration. A callback, a user-defined flush mode, and a user-defined struct are passed to ``ReconfigParams_t``. The reconfiguration parameters are then passed to the decoder using ``SetReconfigParams``.

> The reconfiguration structs are defined in |common|_ in the rocDecode samples. Three possibilities for the remaining frames in the frame buffer are provided:

Reviewer 2: Suggest to change "in the frame buffer" to "in the frame buffer pool".

* ``RECONFIG_FLUSH_MODE_DUMP_TO_FILE``: write the frames to the specified output file before deleting the buffers.
* ``RECONFIG_FLUSH_MODE_CALCULATE_MD5``: calculate the MD5 of the frames before deleting the buffers.

.. code:: C++

  typedef enum ReconfigFlushMode_enum {
    RECONFIG_FLUSH_MODE_NONE = 0,               /**<  Just flush to get the frame count */
      RECONFIG_FLUSH_MODE_DUMP_TO_FILE = 1,       /**<  The remaining frames will be dumped to file in this mode */
      RECONFIG_FLUSH_MODE_CALCULATE_MD5 = 2,      /**<  Calculate the MD5 of the flushed frames */
  } ReconfigFlushMode;

  typedef struct ReconfigDumpFileStruct_t {
    bool b_dump_frames_to_file;
    std::string output_file_name;
    void *md5_generator_handle;
  } ReconfigDumpFileStruct;

If the ``-o`` output file path argument was set, the remaining frames in the frame buffer will be written to the output file upon reconfiguration. If the ``-md5`` argument was set to ``true``, the MD5 of the frames in the frame buffer will be calculated before they're flushed or written to file. If neither option was selected, the frames in the buffer will be deleted along with the buffer. 

> 

Reviewer 2: Small correction: "the remaining frames in the decoded frame buffer pool"

> 

Reviewer 2: Suggest change "the MD5 of the frames in the frame buffer" to "the MD5 of the frames in the decoded frame buffer pool".

Suggest to delete "If neither option was selected, the frames in the buffer will be deleted along with the buffer. "

Author: Changing that last line to 
"If neither option was selected, the frames in the decoded frame buffer pool will be deleted along with the buffers without being saved or processed. "
